What we've established our frame range for our idol cycle and animated the chest control.
All right so what let's do is let's go to frame 30 and let's work on where these hands are going to
be.
What are they going to do I think as he breathes in maybe that hand will move out just a hair so I'll
just select that and move it out slightly and maybe move this one out slightly as well.
I like that.
And then I'm going to take the keyframes for the hands right here.
So like these two shift d to duplicate and move them over to frame 60 as well.
Rigaud Let's try that.
All right.
What we've got here is some classic twinning the arms doing exactly the same thing at exactly the same
time.
So I'd like to kind of stagger that a bit but the timing once again doesn't look too bad.
So I'm going to come over here to frame 30 and I think what I want to do is just take one of these and
move them forward just a bit and take the other one and move it back just a bit and see what happens
here.
Let's also take a look at the head now.
What should the head be doing.
I feel like as the chest comes out the head should come down just a bit.
So let's take a look at that.
I'll bring it back to frame 30 at this point in time and I'll tilt it down just a hair and then I'll
select that first key frame for the head.
Duplicate it and move it out to frame 60.
So now we've got that looping from frame 1 through 30 to frame 60.
Let's take a look at that
so it looks to me like it's let me zoom in here.
Now we've selected the head.
And let me zoom in to see if we can find here when it hit the period key on the numpad to zoom in.
And if I open up the head item here and the graph editor I can see the individual location rotation
and scale here and it looks like I want to take a look at the the rotation in the x.
It looks like it's got quite a large curve here at the beginning.
Well let's see what happens if we then duplicate this I'm going to take this one keyframe here and press
shift D and move it over to here now frame 60.
Let's take a look at that.
So it looks like here's the X now.
And I'm going to press control and middle mouse button and kind of drag up just so I can see the curve
a little better.
So you can kind of see what's happening it's kind of curving up a lot here and then it kind of angles
down a little bit differently at the end.
Let's see if we can get this to work a little better.
What we need is for this curve to look a little more like this curve.
So it so it flows into it a little better from the back.
So if this is flowing into this and repeating we want this keyframe to look similar to this keyframe.
So if I select this keyframe I can click this handle here and move it around like this and try and get
that curve to match up a little better.
See how that works.
I'll hit play
a little bit better if I go back to frame 30 and move this down some more even half.
And it kind of stretches it up a bit.
Let's see how this works.
Little too much but still you can see you can see the effects of it though.
I'm going to I'm going to select this and hit the G key and the Y key and just move it down in the y
axis here something like this.
I'll just this a bit with the G key.
Just to try and get that curve.
So it looks about the same on both sides and we go that's all I wanted just a little bit of a tilt down
with the head as the chest comes back and once again I can move this up a bit g y and move it up a bit
to make it a little bit more pronounced.
If we play the animation to me it looks like he begins breathing and then the head comes down.
And that's because we've got this kind of bow in the graph right here.
And what I'd like to do is have it come straight or more straight from the first key frame to the middle.
It's a small thing but I thought it would be a good opportunity to talk about tangents and free tangents
so let's take a look at this.
I'm going to come over here and select that first key keyframe for the head.
And you can see on the x axis here and I can select just this handle and press the G key and then I
can move that handle So now that curve goes up more straight to the middle keyframe.
All right so let's do that with this one over here if I take this one over here and I select this handle
and I press the G key.
You can see that it turns that other one as well.
And I don't really want that per say.
Let's say there's another keyframe over here and I don't want to angle that curve up or down.
What I can do is I can actually break or free this particular handle from the movement of the other
one.
So if I select the keyframe come down here to Key I've got handle type and now I can choose free so
if I just select that keyframe and hit the the key.
Now I can choose free.
And now if I select that one handle I can move it independently of the other handle and that's can be
pretty handy.
In fact I use that all the time.
So let's get this right about here let's say.
Now if we go back and play that that head is moving at the same time as the chest.
So that helped.
And then I could maybe tweak a little bit more here but I think generally that's pretty good.
All right.
Well there are of course other things we could do we could have him look around we could have him move
his feet back and forth then swing the hammer.
We could do just about anything.
But this is just a very basic idle sequence.
So in the next video we'll begin working on the run cycle for the character.
See you then.